---
title: Self-Reflection one year on!
date: 2019-11-15 12:00:00 +0000
comments: true
layout: post
image:
  src: /assets/img/oneyear.jfif
  width: 523  # in pixels
  height: 352  # in pixels
  alt: test
categories: [Mental Health, Anxiety]
tags: [mental health, anxiety, depression, work]
---
<p>Today is the deadline for us to complete our Self-Reflection on our performance management system at work and as I was self-reflecting on my performance at work for the year it made me realise that I have had a real journey the past 365 days personally as tomorrow marks the day from a year ago when I intended to take my own life.</p><p>So 16th November 2018 was a turning point in my life and in my previous articles <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/new-year-actually-does-mean-me-hopefully-andrew-boorman-fcca/" target="_blank">A new year actually does mean a new me</a> and <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/its-okay-ok-andrew-boorman-fcca/" target="_blank">It's OK to not be OK!</a> I have spoken about the my mental health openly which I would never have done before but even now I still find myself defaulting to being a closed book even with those closest to me when I am not OK but that's OK because I eventually remind myself to tell and this is something I am going to work on during the next part of my journey.</p><p>However this article is more about the things I have done in the last 365 days as going back to the turning point I would never have imagined could have done anything and if anyone else out there feels suicidal it has shown me that it does get better.</p><p>November 2018 and December 2018 are pretty much a blur but here is a list of things in 2019 that on self-reflection I'm please I stayed around for I have probably forgotten some key ones but my memory isn't what it was:</p><ol><li>I started my phased returned to work in January 2019.</li><li>5th January: Managed to make it to London to watch The Cursed Child for my Wife's birthday.</li><li>13th January: I shared my first article on my mental health <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/new-year-actually-does-mean-me-hopefully-andrew-boorman-fcca/" target="_blank">A new year actually does mean a new me</a>.</li><li>15th February: Had a weekend break in Torquay.</li><li>2nd March : Took my son to his first North London derby.</li><li>3rd April: I used my spurs season ticket for the first time for the very first game at the new Tottenham Hotspur Stadium.</li><li>22nd April: Went to Chessington for my Son's birthday!</li><li>26th April: I went to see an ENT specialist after putting up with sinus problems for years (despite nearly fainting at the hospital), I got steroids from him which have really helped my sinuses!</li><li>24th May: I went on holiday to St Ives in Cornwall with my Wife and my 2 youngest children. I felt bad on a couple of the days but enjoyed the time away.</li><li>4th June: Went with my wife to see Hugh Jackman at the O2.</li><li>14th June: Went to see Gazza and Vinnie Jones at the Oasis.</li><li>26th June: I shared another article on my mental health <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/its-okay-ok-andrew-boorman-fcca/" target="_blank">It's OK to not be OK!</a></li><li>23rd July: I was part of a presentation to our Group CFO on the UK IFRS 17 project.</li><li>6th August: Had a short break to the Lake District.</li><li>6th September: Met Ledley King at a Swindon Spurs legends night.</li><li>9th September: I change my working hours by compressing my full time hours into 4 days.</li><li>10th September: Booked a holiday to Florida for November 2020, just need to work on getting there unlike New York in 2018.</li><li>11th September: I made a post about suicide prevention which got a lot of comments and messages, which has led to making a new friend from around the world.</li><li>22nd September: Went on a mini-cruise but didn't see any of Belgium as I was in bed with a migraine.</li><li>26th September: Met Gary Mabutt at a Swindon Town legends night.</li><li>1st October: Delivered a training session on IFRS 17 to some senior finance execs.</li><li>23rd October: Went to London so my Son could go on the last remaining tube lines he needed to go on!</li><li>25th October: Went on a last minute break to Cornwall, wasn't feeling that great but spoke to my wife and she helped me deal with it!</li><li>13th November: Went to the cinema with my wife without the kids!</li><li>14th November: Helped deliver a training session on IFRS 17 to a number of finance team members.</li><li>Now no list from an accountant can be complete without some numbers so here are a few about the last 365 days: 10 visits to the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium gradually seeing worse performances each time luckily missing some of the worst performances through illness, an average of 2.5 visits to see a Doctor per month so much so the receptionists all know me well, getting to do the school run about 15% of the time, using our family national trust memberships to save over £300 on visits and parking and finally 4,048 deleted work emails since I have gone onto outlook!</li></ol><p>So what's next? I need to work on my anxiety around holidays and days out but looking back at this list is helpful in realising I can do all these things despite not being fully recovered from my mental health problems!</p><p>And remember if you don't feel OK please tell someone!</p><p>Thanks Andy</p><p><br></p>